>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So
let's go through this challenge.
And so, this morning,
presuming it is morning where you are.
But at least initially for
the first couple hours,
we covered a lot of new ground.
So kinda the conversations I've been
having lunch is, hey, this Angular 2 thing
is super new and I was super confused and
there's all this new information,
and to that, first and
foremost I apologize.
But more importantly is that I wanted to
lay kind of a broad, high level picture
that we will then start to go in and kind
of fill those things in through exercises.
So now, we're going to kinda slow down and
reinforce a lot of these things, and
I think that is we start to work in code,
to build out code examples.
Some of the things that we saw that
didn't initially make sense will suddenly
start to kinda fall in and these big
picture pieces will start to congeal
into this kind of coherent
thing that we can use,
the skill set that we
can use to do things.
So one of the things that I was hearing is
that we'd really like to be able to build,
for instance,
create an angular application, and a page,
that you actually like load a components
while we're actually really closer that.
In fact, in this challenge,
some of the angular-cli stuff aside,
that is a whole you'll have the ability
to essentially create a component,
hook it to an application as a page.
So that's what we're gonna see.
So to this point we'll go
a slow as we need to and
just make sure that everybody has an
opportunity to write Angular code and so
now we're moving more from
theory In to practice.
And so, let's reinforce the code here.
So the challenge is first and
foremost, check out the start branch.
Then, we're going to essentially
build out a widgets feature.
And then, create a simple route
to navigate to said feature,
so let's walk through this.
And I will do the solution and
offer commentary as I'm going.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So
one thing that I am going to do is,
I'm just going to break this,
peel this off into a new branch.
So git checkout -b, and so
we'll just go workshop.
And so, now, all this does is that I've
just created a new branch based off of
zero to zero start.
So that when I'm done, I can either
merge it in or I can throw it away.
But the idea is that it's now kind of off
on it's on and I can do with it as I want.
And so, then from here we'll go npm start.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And while this is
building up, I already have it here.
We'll just refresh the page.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Wait for it.
And so, what we have here,
it's basically, well,
it's an application
with the Items feature.
And so, this is here for reference so that
we can reference as we're building along.
But we're going to be building
out a Widgets feature in tandem.
So we'll hop into our IDE and
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: We
will create a widget's directory,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And
let me actually just
close under this here.
And within out widget's directory,
let's create out of JavaScript file
cuz we're doing this in typescript,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: WidgetsComponent.ts.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Just add everything.
We'll go ahead an do an HTML file.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And
lets go ahead and do a CSS file.
Which is .component.css.
And so, the idea here is that within
your feature that you organize your
physical files, or you files,
by feature and not by type.
And so, now we have a widgets feature.
And so, we'll put all
the files that pertain to this
within the widgets directory.
And now that we have these files,
we'll just jump in real quick and
I'm going to update
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: The template to say
something obnoxious.
Widgets for days,
clearly I spelled that wrong.
We gotta deal with a D.
I think we're making progress.
So ship it.
From here, export class WidgetsComponent.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: From here,
what should we do next?
>> Speaker 2: Import.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Import.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Not common core.
Common core.
Now, what do we do?
>> Speaker 2: Decorate.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Yes.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And
what do we need here?
>> Speaker 2: Selector.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Good.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And what else?
>> Speaker 2: Template URL.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Nice.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And since we're here,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Is it styles URL?
>> Speaker 2: Styles.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: URL.
So there's actually a style.
[CROSSTALK]
>> Speaker 2: Style URLs.
>> Speaker 3: In an array.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Isn't that what I had,
I'm so confused here.
How's that, wrong.
>> Speaker 2: Better.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: No,
it's not style URLs.
>> Speaker 2: Style URLs.
>> Speaker 4: Do you have to have
something in that collection for
that squiggly to go away?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Wait, hold on.
[CROSSTALK] There we go.
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: [LAUGH] So style-
>> Speaker 4: URLs.
>> Speaker 2: Yes, air five, bud.
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Everybody's so
irritated with me right now.
>> Speaker 2: [LAUGH]
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Maybe I was just
rolling everyone,
did you ever think about that?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So
how about that component?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: We have it
essentially created, the class,
we've imported everything we need, and
we've decorated the component as well,
the component class.
So currently we do not have any need for
any additional functionality, so
we have no need to really enhance this
component or really repeat this process.
So now the question is,
how do we get it Into our application.
>> Speaker 4: Importing your module?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Good.
So we will go to module.
Here, and let's just try something here.
Sweet.
Okay, so now it's-
>> Speaker 2: Is that
a feature of your IDE?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: It is.
>> Speaker 2: That's nice.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So
I believe Visual Studio Code I think Atom,
I don't use Sublime that much anymore.
So kind of Atom is the new Sublime,
Sublime is the new TextMate, but-
>> Speaker 2: [LAUGH]
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: I really, really like.
Their support is pretty awesome.
So it's been declared.
So now,
how do we get this into our application?
We'll go the easy route first.
>> Speaker 4: You select your [CROSSTALK]
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Yes.
Put your selector in
your markup somewhere.
So let's try, well, how about this?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Hr, app-widgets.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Let's
see if I broke something.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Widgets, components,
CSS, let's get that fixed real quick.
>> Speaker 4: It's plural.
>> Speaker 5: Plural?
Yeah.
>> Speaker 2: Components.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: What?
Yeah.
Everybody got me so
confused with, no, it's styles.
No, it's style.
Then, I just carried that, I just
projected that right over into this.
There we go.
So you can see here,
now, it's at the bottom.
So that's one way to get
it into the application.
Let's do the bonus.
So going into app routing module.
I want to try something.
So go path, we'll go widgets, component.
Is it gonna give it to me?
No, why not?
Because I'm in a separate module.
So I need to explicitly import this.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: There we go.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Winning.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So
now if we go here in the browser
/widgets,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: We actually have
not two instances of the widgets
component because we have one that's on
the app component and then another
instance that's actually getting
loaded via the router into router outlet.
So just to kind of also spin on this, I
see some heads nodding, is if I were to go
to app component and just duplicate this,
so anytime you put that selector on
the page you are going to get a component.
But you notice here this router outlet,
when we go to the widgets route,
the Angular router's saying okay we're at
this route, take the widgets component and
load it into here as well.
And so, this is why we are seeing this.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Let me
make sure I'm not, nope.
So then if we delete this,
let's just get rid of all of this.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: I feel like I
deleted something I'm not supposed to.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: There we go.
So now we're just loading one in,
lets update the navigation
to allow us to navigate two widgets
so if we go to
this app component here if we go to
the top of it we have our navigation.
And so,
you can see here that we have a routerLink
that's going towards link.items.
So I duplicated that,
let's go widgets, widgets.
And then, what I need to do is go here.
How do you spell widgets?
Like so.
Because what you can actually do is there
are some additional things you can put in
here like grammar's and stuff.
I think it just looks better in
an imperative context such as
JavaScript as opposed to
putting this into your HTML.
So personally,
I just like to keep that separated.
If there's any kinda calculations or
anything, I think just keep your
JavaScript close to your JavaScript.
And I just like to separate that, so
this is just a personal preference, and
then from here if I did this correct,
so let's go items, widgets.
Now, let's do one other thing, yes.
Just a quick question.
>> Speaker 4: That router outlet,
is that just a place holder then, for
whatever the router determines
that you've selected?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: It is, yep.
So the question is,
is the router outlet a place holder for
basically whatever you select
in your route, so to speak?
And that's exactly it.
So this is equivalent in Angular 1,
NG route.
Or UI route or ngView or
UIView is essentially when you navigate
to a route Angular will look for
essentially the router outlet
to put that component in there.
And so, you can move it anywhere
on the page that you want and
currently we're working
with unnamed routes.
So it'll, just by default,
look for the router outlet.
But you can actually name them and simply
say, when I go to this route, I wanna put
this component in this router outlet, and
this component in this router outlet.
So you can target them via names, but
right now we're just
choosing unnamed routes.
And there can actually only be
one unnamed route per page.
But that's the idea.
>> Speaker 2: Question from Craig.
>> Speaker 2: Why would I
get template parse errors?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So
the answer is bad HTML, Craig.
Without actually seeing.
I mean, I don't know.
I think there's probably
something wrong with the HTML.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So
more interesting NEC.
So the call will never leave the client
side Hold on, let me just see here.
>> Speaker 2: It was a pretty
non-conversation between Amy and Frank.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Okay, so
I'll presume that was not for me.
Now, let's do one other thing real quick.
Since we're going to be
working with Widgets,
let's just set our default
path to go to widgets.
And I feel like I should
fix the wildcard here.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And there we go.
So now, if we just take this,
then it's just gonna go
straight to Widgets.
So this is the fundamental
building block of everything.
That we're gonna do
over the next two days.
I mean, components are really
the atomic building blocks.
That once we understand the structure,
then we can start to understand
how to build a single feature, but
then we can also understand how to
construct these to make more complex and
a multi dimensional features as well as
really compose these things together.
So I don't want to rush this.
I don't wanna jump into the next module.
If anybody has any questions,
let's slow this down.
We can write some more code,
whatever you wanna do but
I really wanna make sure that this,
what I just went over, is making sense.